#This template was inspired by a GDPR nightmare email and usually results in your email being removed from all lists :)
#Template is reference Canada's privacy laws
#Credit to Mirai Security's CSO for this lovely message

Dear Sir/Madam: 

I am writing to you in your capacity as privacy officer. I received an unsolicited email that I did not opt-in to from your organization. I am making this request for access to personal information pursuant to principles 1, 7, 8, 9 and 10 of Schedule 1 of the Canadian Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (PIPEDA). I am very concerned that your company’s information practices may be putting my personal information at undue risk of exposure or in fact has breached its obligation to safeguard my personal information pursuant to principal 7. I would like you to be aware at the outset, that I anticipate reply to my request within 30 days as required by s. 8(3) of PIPEDA, failing which I will be forwarding my inquiry with a letter of complaint to the Federal Privacy Commissioner’s Office. 
Please advise as to the following:
1.	Please provide me with a copy of all specific personal information you have about me in your files and databases. In particular, please tell me what you know about me in your information systems, whether or not contained in databases, and including e-mail, documents on your networks, or voice or other media that you may store.
2.	Please provide me with a detailed accounting of where you acquired the specific personal information you have about me in your files and databases.
3.	Please provide me with a detailed record of the informed consent obtained from me for the purposes of collecting, using, or disclosing my personal data as pursuant to principle 3 of Schedule 1 of PIPEDA.
4.	Please provide me with a detailed accounting of the specific uses that you have made, are making, or will be making of this information.
5.	Please provide a list of all companies with whom you have (or may have) shared my information. If you cannot identify with certainty the specific companies to whom you have disclosed my information, please provide a list of companies to whom you may have disclosed information about me.
6.	4. I would like to know whether or not my personal information has been disclosed inadvertently by your company in the past, or as a result of a security or privacy breach. 
a.	If so, please advise as to the following details of each and any such breach: 
i.	a general description of what occurred;
ii.	the date and time of the breach (or the best possible estimate);
iii.	the date and time the breach was discovered;
iv.	the source of the breach (either your own organization, or a third party to whom you have transferred my personal information);
v.	details of my personal information that was disclosed;
vi.	your company’s assessment of the risk of identity fraud to myself, as a result of the breach;
vii.	a description of the measures taken or that will be taken to prevent further unauthorized access to my personal information;
viii.	contact information for so that I can obtain more information and assistance in relation to such a breach, and
ix.	information and advice on what I can do to protect myself against identity theft and fraud.
b.	If you are not able to state with any certainty whether such an exposure has taken place, through the use of appropriate technologies, please advise what mitigating steps you have taken, such as:
i.	Encryption of my personal information; ©Symantec (Canada) Corp.
ii.	Data minimization strategies; or,
iii.	Any other means
c.	Please advise if you have had any circumstances in which employees or contractors have been dismissed, and/or been charged under criminal laws for accessing my personal information inappropriately, or if you are unable to determine this, of any customers, in the past twelve months.
7.	I would like to know your information policies and standards that you follow in relation to the safeguarding of my personal information, such as whether you adhere to ISO 17799 or ISO 27001 for information security, and more particularly, your practices in relation to the following:
a.	Please inform me whether you have backed up my personal information to tape or other media, and where it is stored and how it is secured, including what steps you have taken to protect my personal information from loss or theft, and whether this includes encryption.
b.	Please also advise whether you have in place any technology which allows you with reasonable certainty to know whether or not my personal information has been disclosed, including but not limited to the following:
i.	Intrusion detection systems;
ii.	Firewall technologies;
iii.	Access and identity management technologies;
iv.	Database audit and/or security tools; or,
v.	Behavioural analysis tools, log analysis tools, or audit tools;
c.	Please also advise what technologies or business procedures you have to ensure that individuals within your organization will be monitored to ensure that they do not deliberately or inadvertently disclose personal information outside your company, through e-mail, web mail or instant messaging, or otherwise.
Regards,
